High in this video I just want to talk very quickly about variable re-assignment and we've already seen
this before but I want to emphasize a certain point.
So suppose we have this line of code by var equals 10.
Now we know already what's happening right.
We have an object in memory that gets created at some memory address type integer value 10 and my VAR
is simply a reference to that object to point.
If we later write a line of code like my variables 15 then we are not changing the value inside that
object.
That's the point that I want to make in this video.
Instead what's happening is that a new object also of type integer.
But to have a value of 15 is created at some different memory address and the reference of my VAR changes
to this new object so my version of points to this new object.
But we have not changed the value of the object that memory address.
Let's a thousand K..
Instead we created a new object at a different memory address.
So that's a really important point that I want to stress that.
And in fact even if you look let's say at this code so let's start again.
My VAR equals 10.
My voice is a pointer to that object.
We write my articles my VAR plus five the same thing happens.
Don't be fooled don't think that because we have my var on both sides of the expression that somehow
something changes and now we're changing the value of that object.
We are not Python first evaluates the right hand side.
So it looks at my VAR says hey I have to add five to my value.
OK what's my VAR.
My VAR is an integer value of 10.
OK that's integer addition 10 plus 5 is 15.
It creates a new object in memory at a different memory address with a value of 15.
And my VAR now points to that new object.
But we did not change the contents or the value or the state of the object at address 1000.
In fact the content of integers can never be changed.
And we'll look at that in the next section when we look at mutability immutability of objects so that
will be coming right up for us.
Let's take a look at some code and just see this in action very quickly.
OK.
So let's just look at this in some code.
So we create this variable A We assign it the value of 10.
So it created an object in memory of type integer at some memory address.
We can look at the memory address that the memory address we can even if we want to look at the type
of a which is integer.
So let's now say equals 15.
OK.
Now we can again look at the memory address of AA and you'll notice that the memory address of a has
changed.
It used it was know ending in a zero and here we see it ends in B 9 0 different object.
So that's what happened when we changed the value of a.
We actually just reassigned the reference of a a different object and it's no different if we say equals
a plus one then we'll get something similar.
We'll see that the memory address.
Now if a has changed yet again.
Right now is a value of 16 and it's a different object in memory.
EBV zero in this case.
Now before we finish up I want to show you something that might surprise you.
Let's say we have eight pools 10 again.
Now let's create another variable.
B equals 10.
And let's look at the memory address of a.
And let's look at the memory address of B.
You'll notice the memory address of a and b are the same.
Now other words A and B are both pointing to the same object.
They're both pointing to an object at that memory address that happens to be an integer value of 10.
So we'll look at that in the next video.
We'll consider mutability immutability and we'll see then after that.
Why it's actually safe for that to happen.
And then in a future video are probably four five videos from here.
We'll look at why this is happening why is python doing this.
Why is it reusing that memory address essentially.
OK.
So but first we're going to look at mutability immutability and then we'll see why it's actually safe
for Python to do something like that and then we'll look at why it actually does.
All right I'll see in the next video.